---
layout: page
header: no
#
# Content
#
subheadline: "Recent Publication"
title: "Immortal time bias in drug safety cohort studies: spontaneous abortion following nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug exposure."
teaser: "Daniel S(1), Koren G(2), Lunenfeld E(3), Levy A(4)."
categories: [Publications]
tags: [Epidemiology, Pharmacology, OBGYN]
---
1. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2015 Mar;212(3):307.e1-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ajog.2014.09.028.
Epub 2014 Oct 12.

Immortal time bias in drug safety cohort studies: spontaneous abortion following 
nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug exposure.

Daniel S(1), Koren G(2), Lunenfeld E(3), Levy A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Public Health, Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben-Gurion University
of the Negev, Soroka Medical Center, Beer-Sheva, Israel; Department of
Pediatrics, Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev,
Soroka Medical Center, Beer-Sheva, Israel; Ben-Gurion Motherisk Obstetric
Registry of Exposure (BeMORE) collaboration, Beer-Sheva, Israel. (2)Ben-Gurion
Motherisk Obstetric Registry of Exposure (BeMORE) collaboration, Beer-Sheva,
Israel; Motherisk Program, Division of Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology,
Hospital for Sick Children, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Faculty of Health Sciences,
Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Soroka Medical Center, Beer-Sheva, Israel.
(4)Department of Public Health, Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben-Gurion University
of the Negev, Soroka Medical Center, Beer-Sheva, Israel; Ben-Gurion Motherisk
Obstetric Registry of Exposure (BeMORE) collaboration, Beer-Sheva, Israel.
Electronic address: lamalia@bgu.ac.il.

OBJECTIVE: Experimental research of drug safety in pregnancy is generally not
feasible because of ethical issues. Therefore, most of the information about drug
safety in general and teratogenicity in particular is obtained through
observational studies, which require careful methodologic design to obtain
unbiased results. Immortal time bias occurs when some cases do not "survive"
sufficient time in the study, and as such, they have reduced chances of being
defined as "exposed" simply because the durations of their follow-ups were
shorter. For example, studies that examine the risk for spontaneous abortions in 
women exposed to a drug during pregnancy are susceptible to immortal time bias
because the chance of drug exposure increases the longer a pregnancy lasts.
Therefore, the drug tested may falsely be found protective against the outcome
tested. The objective of the current study was to illustrate the extent of
immortal time bias using a cohort study of pregnancies assessing the risk for
spontaneous abortions following nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug exposure.
STUDY DESIGN: We assembled 3 databases containing data on spontaneous abortions, 
births and drug dispensions to create the present study's cohort. The risk for
spontaneous abortion was assessed using 2 statistical analysis methods that were 
compared for 2 definitions of exposure (dichotomous, exposed vs unexposed,
regular Cox regression vs Cox regression with time-varying exposure).
RESULTS: Significant differences were found in the risk for spontaneous abortions
between the 2 statistical methods, both for groups and for most specific
nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (nonselective Cox inhibitors - hazard ratio, 
0.70; 95% confidence interval, 0.61-0.94 vs hazard ratio, 1.10; 95% confidence
interval, 0.99-1.22 for dichotomous vs time-varying exposure analyses,
respectively). Furthermore, a significant correlation was found between the
median misclassified immortal time for each drug and the extent of the bias.
CONCLUSION: Immortal time bias can easily occur in cohort studies assessing the
risk for adverse pregnancy outcomes following exposure to drugs. One way to
prevent such a bias is by defining exposure only from the time of exposure during
follow-up onward using a time-varying exposure analysis.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2014.09.028 
PMID: 25265406  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
