---
layout: page
header: no
#
# Content
#
subheadline: "Recent Publication"
title: "A comparison between amylase levels from peritonsillar, dental and neck abscesses."
teaser: "El-Saied S(1), Kaplan DM, Zlotnik A, Abu Tailakh M, Kordeluk S, Joshua BZ."
categories: [Publications]
tags: [Otolaryngology]
---
1. Clin Otolaryngol. 2014 Dec;39(6):359-61. doi: 10.1111/coa.12298.

A comparison between amylase levels from peritonsillar, dental and neck
abscesses.

El-Saied S(1), Kaplan DM, Zlotnik A, Abu Tailakh M, Kordeluk S, Joshua BZ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery, Soroka University Medical
Center, Beer-Sheva, Israel; Faculty of Health Sciences, Clinical Research Center,
Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel.

OBJECTIVES: Pus of peritonsillar abscess (PTA) contains very high amylase levels 
in some patients. The objective of this study was to further test this finding
and to check whether high amylase levels in peritonsillar abscess originate from 
contamination by saliva during aspiration.
STUDY DESIGN: Prospective study.
SETTING: Tertiary care university hospital.
PARTICIPANTS: The study includes 64 patients with PTA, 8 patients with a neck
abscess and 12 patients with a dental abscess.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Amylase levels of pus and serum were compared between the
groups. Clinical data regarding hospitalisation length, recurrence rate and
previous antibiotic treatment were also collected.
RESULTS: Mean amylase levels in the pus of the PTA group were 3045 U/L (median 59
U/L), 13 U/L in the neck abscess group (P = 0.001) and 22 U/L in the dental
abscess group (P = 0.001). Mean serum amylase was higher in the PTA group; PTA - 
50 U/L, neck abscess - 37 U/L (P = 0.002) and dental abscess - 26 U/L
(P < 0.002). All of the patients with amylase levels above 65 U/L had a first
episode of PTA. In contrast, 40% of patients with amylase lower than 65 U/L had
recurrent PTA (P = 0.003).
CONCLUSION: A clear association is seen between minor salivary glands and
peritonsillar abscess. The high amylase level in peritonsillar pus is not from
contamination with saliva.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/coa.12298 
PMID: 25117975  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
