---
layout: page
header: no
#
# Content
#
subheadline: "Recent Publication"
title: "Use patterns of health information exchange through a multidimensional lens: conceptual framework and empirical validation."
teaser: "Politi L(1), Codish S(2), Sagy I(2), Fink L(3)."
categories: [Publications]
tags: [HIT]
---
1. J Biomed Inform. 2014 Dec;52:212-21. doi: 10.1016/j.jbi.2014.07.003. Epub 2014
Jul 14.

Use patterns of health information exchange through a multidimensional lens:
conceptual framework and empirical validation.

Politi L(1), Codish S(2), Sagy I(2), Fink L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Industrial Engineering & Management, Ben-Gurion University of
the Negev, Israel. Electronic address: liranpo@post.bgu.ac.il. (2)Clinical
Research Center, Soroka University Medical Center, Israel. (3)Department of
Industrial Engineering & Management, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Israel.

Insights about patterns of system use are often gained through the analysis of
system log files, which record the actual behavior of users. In a clinical
context, however, few attempts have been made to typify system use through log
file analysis. The present study offers a framework for identifying, describing, 
and discerning among patterns of use of a clinical information retrieval system. 
We use the session attributes of volume, diversity, granularity, duration, and
content to define a multidimensional space in which each specific session can be 
positioned. We also describe an analytical method for identifying the common
archetypes of system use in this multidimensional space. We demonstrate the value
of the proposed framework with a log file of the use of a health information
exchange (HIE) system by physicians in an emergency department (ED) of a large
Israeli hospital. The analysis reveals five distinct patterns of system use,
which have yet to be described in the relevant literature. The results of this
study have the potential to inform the design of HIE systems for efficient and
effective use, thus increasing their contribution to the clinical decision-making
process.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbi.2014.07.003 
PMID: 25034041  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
