---
layout: page
header: no
#
# Content
#
subheadline: "Recent Publication"
title: "Nitrogen Dioxide pollution and hazardous household environment: what impacts more congenital malformations."
teaser: "Landau D(1), Novack L(2), Yitshak-Sade M(3), Sarov B(4), Kloog I(5), Hershkovitz R(6), Grotto I(7), Karakis I(8)."
categories: [Publications]
tags: [Environmental Health, OBGYN]
---
1. Chemosphere. 2015 Nov;139:340-8. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2015.06.091. Epub
2015 Jul 11.

Nitrogen Dioxide pollution and hazardous household environment: what impacts more
congenital malformations.

Landau D(1), Novack L(2), Yitshak-Sade M(3), Sarov B(4), Kloog I(5), Hershkovitz 
R(6), Grotto I(7), Karakis I(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neonatology, Soroka University Medical Center, Beer-Sheva,
Israel. (2)Department of Public Health, Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben-Gurion
University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel. Electronic address:
novack@bgu.ac.il. (3)Clinical Research Center, Soroka University Medical Center, 
Beer-Sheva, Israel. (4)Department of Public Health, Faculty of Health Sciences,
Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel. (5)Department of
Geography, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel. (6)Department 
of Gynecology, Soroka University Medical Center, Ben-Gurion University of the
Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel. (7)Public Health Services, Ministry of Health,
Jerusalem, Israel. (8)Environmental Epidemiology Department, Ministry of Health, 
Jerusalem, Israel; Ashkelon Academic College, Ashkelon, Israel.

Nitrogen Dioxide (NO2) is a product of fuel combustion originating mainly from
industry and transportation. Studies suggest an association between NO2 and
congenital malformations (CM). We investigated an independent effect of NO2 on CM
by adjusting to individual factors and household environment in 1024 Bedouin-Arab
pregnant women in southern Israel. This population is characterised by high rates
of CMs, frequent consanguineous marriages, paternal smoking, temporary housing
and usage of open fire for heat cooking. Information on household risk factors
was collected during an interview. Ambient measurements of 24-h average NO2 and
meteorological conditions were obtained from 13 local monitors. Median value of
daily NO2 measured in the area was 6.78ppb. CM was diagnosed in 8.0% (82) of
offspring. Maternal NO2 exposure during the 1st trimester >8.6ppb was
significantly associated with minor CM (RR=2.68, p=0.029). Major CM were
independently associated with maternal juvenile diabetes (RR=9.97, p-value=0.002)
and heating by open fire (RR=2.00, p-value=0.049), but not NO2 exposure. We found
that NO2 emissions had an independent impact only on minor malformations, whereas
major malformations depended mostly on the household environment. Antepartum
deaths were associated by maternal morbidity.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2015.06.091 
PMID: 26171819  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
