---
layout: page
header: no
#
# Content
#
subheadline: "Recent Publication"
title: "Retroaortic right internal thoracic artery grafting of circumflex artery targets."
teaser: "Lev-Ran O(1), Matsa M(2), Ishay Y(2), Shabtai A(2), Vodonos A(3), Sahar G(2)."
categories: [Publications]
tags: [Cardiology]
---
1. Asian Cardiovasc Thorac Ann. 2015 Jun;23(5):543-51. doi:
10.1177/0218492315573360. Epub 2015 Feb 20.

Retroaortic right internal thoracic artery grafting of circumflex artery targets.

Lev-Ran O(1), Matsa M(2), Ishay Y(2), Shabtai A(2), Vodonos A(3), Sahar G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Soroka University Medical Center,
Beer-Sheva, Israel orenlevran@hotmail.com. (2)Department of Cardiothoracic
Surgery, Soroka University Medical Center, Beer-Sheva, Israel. (3)Clinical
Research Center, Soroka University Medical Center, Beer-Sheva, Israel.

BACKGROUND: Retroaortic right internal thoracic artery grafting has failed to
gain popularity. We aimed to delineate patient correlates of eligibility,
distribution of targets, and effects of target remoteness on outcome and risk of 
retroaortic bleeding.
METHODS: Data of 861 patients undergoing skeletonized bilateral internal thoracic
artery grafting (2007-2012) were analyzed according to retroaortic (n = 300) or
T-graft configuration. Retroaortic graft subgroups were categorized according to 
proximal (first obtuse marginal, ramus) or distal (2nd, 3rd, or sequential
1st-2nd obtuse marginal) circumflex artery targets.
RESULTS: LOESS curve analyses revealed that taller patients had a higher
likelihood of retroaortic grafting. The distribution of 337 retroaortic graft
targets (300 patients) was first obtuse marginal in 74.5%, 2nd marginal in 12.4%,
ramus in 11.2%, 3rd marginal in 1.9% and sequential 1st-2nd marginal in 12.3%.
The success rate in reaching proximal and distal circumflex artery targets was
97% and 30%, respectively, 5-year survival (92.2%) and freedom from major adverse
cardiac and cerebrovascular events (85.8%) were comparable between proximal and
distal retroaortic graft subgroups. Distal circumflex artery targets had no
effect on the occurrence of major adverse cardiac and cerebrovascular events. The
incidence of retroaortic bleeding from skeletonized retroaortic grafts was 0.6%.
CONCLUSIONS: Taller patients have a greater likelihood of qualifying for
retroaortic grafting. This technique is highly reproducible for proximal but not 
distal circumflex artery targets. Distal circumflex artery targets are not
independent correlates of early or late adverse outcomes. The risk of retroaortic
bleeding is low despite retroaortic right internal thoracic artery
skeletonization.

© The Author(s) 2015 Reprints and permissions:
sagepub.co.uk/journalsPermissions.nav.

DOI: 10.1177/0218492315573360 
PMID: 25700706  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
