---
layout: page
#
# Content
#
subheadline: "Recent Publication"
title: "Long term subjective cure rate, urinary tract symptoms and dyspareunia following mesh augmented anterior vaginal wall prolapse repair."
teaser: "Weintraub AY(1), Friedman T(2), Baumfeld Y(3), Neuman M(4), Krissi H(5)."
categories:
  - Publications
tags:
  - OBGYN|Urology
---
1. Int J Surg. 2015 Dec;24(Pt A):33-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ijsu.2015.10.027. Epub 2015
Oct 23.

Long term subjective cure rate, urinary tract symptoms and dyspareunia following 
mesh augmented anterior vaginal wall prolapse repair.

Weintraub AY(1), Friedman T(2), Baumfeld Y(3), Neuman M(4), Krissi H(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Soroka University Medical Center,
Beer Sheva 85025, Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev,
Beer Sheva 8410501, Israel. Electronic address: adiyehud@bgu.ac.il. (2)Department
of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer 52621,
Israel. Electronic address: talianoam@gmail.com. (3)Department of Obstetrics and 
Gynecology, Soroka University Medical Center, Beer Sheva 85025, Faculty of Health
Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer Sheva 8410501, Israel;
Clinical Research Center, Soroka University Medical Center, Beer Sheva 85025,
Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer Sheva
8410501, Israel. Electronic address: yaelkup@yahoo.com. (4)Urogynecology,
Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Galilee Medical Center, Nahariya, and
the Faculty of Medicine in the Galilee, Bar Ilan University, Safed, Israel;
Assuta Medical Centers, Tel Aviv and Rishon LeZion, Israel. Electronic address:
mneuman@netvision.net.il. (5)Urogynecology Unit, Department of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, Helen Schneider Hospital for Women, Petach Tikva 49100, Affiliated
with Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel.
Electronic address: Haimkr@clalit.org.il.

INTRODUCTION: The aim of this study was to assess patient-centered long term
outcomes following anterior vaginal repair with mesh.
METHODS: In January 2015, we identified 124 women who underwent anterior pelvic
floor repair with mesh between January 2006 and February 2009. Patient records
were reviewed and demographic, clinical, intra-operative and post-operative
follow-up data retrieved. Telephone interviews were conducted to access
information on clinical outcomes. Associations between baseline characteristics
and long term symptoms were assessed by multivariable logistic regression models.
RESULTS: Seventy-nine women were reached and consented to participate. Patients
were interviewed 79-104 months after surgery. Their mean age at the time of
surgery was 62.48 ± 9.53 years; all had stage III cystocele with a mean POP Q
point Ba of 5.32 ± 1.47. Twenty-four (30%) had a previous hysterectomy and 26
(33%) had a previous pelvic organ prolapse or stress urinary incontinence
operation. At telephone interviews, recurrence of prolapse symptoms was reported 
by 11 (13.9%) patients, mostly in the posterior compartment. Only 6 needed a
corrective procedure. One patient had her mesh removed due to dyspareunia. Eleven
(13.9%) reported lower urinary tract symptoms other than prolapse, as follows:
stress urinary incontinence (1), overactive bladder (8) and dyspareunia (2).
CONCLUSION: Long term rates of recurrent prolapse, dyspareunia and lower urinary 
tract symptoms were low for patients who underwent anterior vaginal wall mesh
augmentation surgery for symptomatic cystoceles.

Copyright © 2015 IJS Publishing Group Limited. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijsu.2015.10.027 
PMID: 26525268  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
