---
layout: page
#
# Content
#
subheadline: "Recent Publication"
title: "Effects of changes in copayment for obstetric emergency room visits on the utilization of obstetric emergency rooms."
teaser: "Raz I(1), Novack L(2), Yitshak-Sade M(3), Shahar Y(1), Wiznitzer A(4), Sergienko R(5), Warshawsky-Livne L(6)."
categories: [Publications]
tags: [Billing, OBGYN, Emergency Medicine]
---
1. Health Policy. 2015 Oct;119(10):1358-65. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2015.08.006.
Epub 2015 Aug 21.

Effects of changes in copayment for obstetric emergency room visits on the
utilization of obstetric emergency rooms.

Raz I(1), Novack L(2), Yitshak-Sade M(3), Shahar Y(1), Wiznitzer A(4), Sergienko 
R(5), Warshawsky-Livne L(6).

Author information: 
(1)Obstetrics and Gynecology Division, Soroka University Medical Center,
Beer-Sheva, Israel. (2)Department of Public Health, Faculty of Health Sciences,
Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel. Electronic address:
novack@bgu.ac.il. (3)Clinical Research Center, Soroka University Medical Center, 
Beer-Sheva, Israel. (4)Obstetrics and Gynecology Division, The Rabin Medical
Center, Petach-Tikva, Israel. (5)Department of Public Health, Faculty of Health
Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel. (6)Sapir
College, Ashqelon, Israel.

In view of the growing proportion of "non-urgent" admissions to obstetric
emergency rooms (OERs) and recent changes in copayment policies for OER visits in
Israel, we assessed factors contributing to OER overcrowding. The changes
investigated were (a) exemption from copayment for women with birth contractions,
(b) allowing phone referrals to the OER and (c) exemption from copayment during
primary care clinic closing hours. We analyzed data of a large tertiary hospital 
with 37 deliveries per day. Counts of women discharged to home from the OER were 
an indicator of "non-urgent" visits. The annual number of non-urgent visits
increased at a higher rate (3.4%) than the natural increase in deliveries (2.1%).
Exemption from copayment for visits during non-working hours of primary care
clinics was associated with increases in OER admissions (IRR=1.22) and in
non-urgent OER visits (IRR=1.54). Younger and first-time mothers with medically
unjustified complaints were more likely to be discharged to home. We showed that 
the changes in the policy for OER copayment meant to attract new clients to the
HMO had an independent impact on OER utilization, and hence, added to the
workload of medical personnel. The change in HMO policy regulating OER
availability requires rigorous assessment of possible health system implications.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2015.08.006 
PMID: 26341842  [PubMed - in process]
