---
layout: page
header: no
#
# Content
#
subheadline: "Recent Publication"
title: "Exposure to metals and congenital anomalies: a biomonitoring study of pregnant Bedouin-Arab women."
teaser: "Karakis I(1), Landau D(2), Yitshak-Sade M(3), Hershkovitz R(4), Rotenberg M(5), Sarov B(6), Grotto I(7), Novack L(8)."
categories: [Publications]
tags: [Environmental Health, OBGYN]
---

1. Sci Total Environ. 2015 Jun 1;517:106-12. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2015.02.056.
Epub 2015 Feb 25.

Exposure to metals and congenital anomalies: a biomonitoring study of pregnant
Bedouin-Arab women.

Karakis I(1), Landau D(2), Yitshak-Sade M(3), Hershkovitz R(4), Rotenberg M(5),
Sarov B(6), Grotto I(7), Novack L(8).

Author information: 
(1)Environmental Epidemiology Department, Ministry of Health, Jerusalem, Israel; 
Faculty of Health Science, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva,
Israel; Department of Public Health, The Ashkelon Academic College, Ashkelon,
Israel. (2)Faculty of Health Science, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev,
Beer-Sheva, Israel; Department of Neonatology, Soroka University Medical Center, 
Beer-Sheva, Israel. (3)Faculty of Health Science, Ben-Gurion University of the
Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel; Clinical Research Center, Soroka University Medical
Center, Beer-Sheva, Israel. (4)Faculty of Health Science, Ben-Gurion University
of the Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel; Ultrasound Unit, Department of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, Soroka University Medical Center, Beer-Sheva, Israel. (5)Laboratory
of Clinical Toxicology and Pharmacology, Sheba Medical Center, Tel-Hashomer,
Israel. (6)Faculty of Health Science, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev,
Beer-Sheva, Israel. (7)Environmental Epidemiology Department, Ministry of Health,
Jerusalem, Israel; Faculty of Health Science, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev,
Beer-Sheva, Israel; Public Health Services, Ministry of Health, Jerusalem,
Israel. (8)Faculty of Health Science, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev,
Beer-Sheva, Israel. Electronic address: novack@bgu.ac.il.

BACKGROUND: The Bedouin-Arab population in Israel comprises a low socio-economic 
society in transition. Smoking among males and consanguineous marriages are
frequent. A previous study showed elevated rates of major malformations within
groups from this population residing near an industrial park, where high ambient 
values of arsenic (As) and nickel (Ni) were detected, compared to groups living
in remote localities.
OBJECTIVES: We estimated the extent of exposure to metals in pregnant
Bedouin-Arab women in relation to congenital malformations.
METHODS: We collected maternal urine samples from 140 Bedouin women who gave
birth in a local hospital. Patient medical history, type of marriage
(consanguineous or non-consanguineous), and parental exposure history were
collected by interview and medical records.
RESULTS: Aluminum (Al) was detected in 37 women (26.4%), cadmium (Cd) in 2
(1.4%), As in 10 (7.1%), and Ni in 1 woman (0.7%). The detected rate of Cd
exposure was low, though more than 92% of the fathers reported smoking.
Concentrations of Al were higher for women residing within 10 km of the local
industrial park (Prevalence Ratio (PR)=1.12, p-value=0.012) or who reported using
a wood burning stove (PR=1.37, p-value=0.011) and cooking over an open fire
(PR=1.16, p-value=0.076). Exposure to Al was adversely associated with minor
anomalies (OR=3.8, p-value=0.046) after adjusting for history of abortions
(OR=6.1, p-value=0.007). Fetuses prenatally exposed to As were born prematurely
(p-value=0.001) and at lower weights (pv=0.023).
CONCLUSIONS: The study population of pregnant women is exposed to high levels of 
metals mainly of household origin. Our findings may be generalized to similar
populations in developing countries.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2015.02.056 
PMID: 25725195  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
