---
layout: page
header: no
#
# Content
#
subheadline: "Recent Publication"
title: "Treatment of chemical warfare agent casualties: retention of knowledge and self-perceived competency among military physicians and paramedics."
teaser: "Shiyovich A(1), Statlender L(1), Abu-Tailakh M(2), Plakht Y(2), Shrot S(1), Kassirer M(1)."
categories: [Publications]
tags: [Military Medicine]
---

1. Mil Med. 2015 Jun;180(6):702-7. doi: 10.7205/MILMED-D-13-00386.

Treatment of chemical warfare agent casualties: retention of knowledge and
self-perceived competency among military physicians and paramedics.

Shiyovich A(1), Statlender L(1), Abu-Tailakh M(2), Plakht Y(2), Shrot S(1),
Kassirer M(1).

Author information: 
(1)CBRN Medicine Branch, Medical Corps, Israel Defense Forces, Tel-Hashomer,
Israel. (2)Department of Public Health, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev and
Clinical Research Center, Soroka University Medical Center, Beer Sheva, Israel.

OBJECTIVE: Specialized training of medical teams for chemical warfare agent (CWA)
events is important to save lives. We aimed to evaluate the retention of
knowledge (ROK) and self-perceived competency (SPC) of military medical personnel
in delivering treatment during CWA events.
METHODS: A questionnaire and a multiple-choice examination were sent to military 
physicians and paramedics, evaluating their CWA, ROK, and SPC (study group [SG]).
Their assessment was compared to medical personnel immediately post training
(reference group [RG]). SG was subdivided into two groups: G1 ≤ 1 year and G2 > 1
year, past training.
RESULTS: Overall, 135 participants responded (35-RG, 65% physicians).
Self-reported ROK and SPC were significantly higher in RG compared to SG and in
G1 compared to G2. Test scores were higher in RG compared to SG, but similar in
G1 and G2 groups. SPC was lower compared to ROK in the entire cohort and
subgroups. A moderate correlation was found between the self-and test-assessed
scores (Pearson correlation coefficient 0.45, p < 0.001). Physicians received
significantly (p = 0.01) higher test scores in RG compared with paramedics.
CONCLUSIONS: ROK and SPC among military medical personnel for treatment of CWA
casualties deteriorate significantly as early as 1 year post training, SPC > ROK.
Thus, we recommend CWA refresher training at least every year.

Reprint & Copyright © 2015 Association of Military Surgeons of the U.S.

DOI: 10.7205/MILMED-D-13-00386 
PMID: 26032387  [PubMed - in process]
