---
layout: page
header: no
#
# Content
#
subheadline: "Recent Publication"
title: "Prenatal exposure to H2 blockers and to proton pump inhibitors and asthma development in offspring."
teaser: "Yitshak-Sade M(1,)(2,)(3), Gorodischer R(2,)(3,)(4,)(5), Aviram M(2,)(3,)(4,)(5), Novack L(2,)(6)."
categories: [Publications]
tags: [Gastroenterology, OBGYN]
---
1. J Clin Pharmacol. 2016 Jan;56(1):116-23. doi: 10.1002/jcph.574. Epub 2015 Aug 10.

Prenatal exposure to H2 blockers and to proton pump inhibitors and asthma
development in offspring.

Yitshak-Sade M(1,)(2,)(3), Gorodischer R(2,)(3,)(4,)(5), Aviram M(2,)(3,)(4,)(5),
Novack L(2,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Research Center, Ben Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva,
Israel. (2)Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben Gurion University of the Negev,
Beer-Sheva, Israel. (3)Soroka Medical Center, Beer-Sheva, Israel. (4)Department
of Pediatrics, Ben Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel.
(5)"Clalit" Health Services (Southern District), Beer-Sheva, Israel.
(6)Department of Public Health, Ben Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva,
Israel.

Comment in
    J Clin Pharmacol. 2016 Jan;56(1):124-5.

Fetal exposure to H2 blockers (H2 Bs) or proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) has been
reported to be associated with asthma in children. We evaluated the risk of
asthma in offspring following prenatal H2 Bs. We enrolled 91 428 children and
their mothers who resided in southern Israel during 1998-2011. The computerized
medications database was linked with records from the district hospital. Of the
eligible children, 11 227 developed asthma, and overall 5.5% had been exposed to 
H2 Bs or PPIs prenatally. The risk of developing asthma was slightly higher in
the group exposed to H2 Bs or PPIs (RR, 1.09; P = .023). At greater risk were
children whose mothers purchased these medications more than 3 times (RR, 1.22; P
= .038) or exposed to >20 defined daily doses or prenatally exposed to
lansoprazole. The statistical association was significant and depended on
magnitude of exposure and specific medication, but the absolute risk was low. The
association between maternal consumption of H2 Bs or PPIs and asthma and
childhood remained statistically significant 2 years after delivery, raising the 
possibility of confounding by the indication phenomenon. In view of the findings,
a causal relationship could not be ascertained, and an unidentified etiological
factor could be operative.

© 2015, The American College of Clinical Pharmacology.

DOI: 10.1002/jcph.574 
PMID: 26096778  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
