---
layout: page
#
# Content
#
subheadline: "Recent Publication"
title: "Early onset preeclampsia and cerebral palsy: a double hit model?"
teaser: "teaser"
categories:
  - Publications
tags:
  - OBGYN
  - Neurology
---
1. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2016 Jan;214(1):105.e1-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ajog.2015.08.020.
Epub 2015 Aug 15.

Early onset preeclampsia and cerebral palsy: a double hit model?

Mor O(1), Stavsky M(2), Yitshak-Sade M(2), Mastrolia SA(3), Beer-Weisel R(1),
Rafaeli-Yehudai T(1), Besser L(1), Hamou B(1), Mazor M(1), Erez O(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Soroka University Medical Center, Ben
Gurion University of the Negev, School of Medicine, Beer Sheva, Israel. (2)Center
of Clinical Research, Ben Gurion University of the Negev, Faculty of Health
Sciences, Beer Sheva, Israel. (3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Soroka 
University Medical Center, Ben Gurion University of the Negev, School of
Medicine, Beer Sheva, Israel; Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Azienda
Ospedaliera Universitaria Policlinico di Bari, Universita' degli Studi di Bari
"Aldo Moro", School of Medicine, Bari, Italy. (4)Department of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, Soroka University Medical Center, Ben Gurion University of the Negev,
School of Medicine, Beer Sheva, Israel. Electronic address: erezof@bgu.ac.il.

BACKGROUND: Cerebral palsy (CP) is a late sequel of pregnancy, and the role of
preeclampsia is debatable.
OBJECTIVE: The aims of this study were to determine the association between
preeclampsia and cerebral palsy and to determine the risk factors for the
development of cerebral palsy in these patients.
STUDY DESIGN: A retrospective population-based cohort study was designed that
included 229,192 singleton pregnancies. The study population was divided into 2
groups: (1) patients with preeclampsia (n = 9749) and (2) normotensive gestations
(n = 219,443). Generalized Estimating Equation multiple logistic regression
models were performed to study the associations among preeclampsia, small for
gestational age, gestational age at delivery, and the risk factors for the
development of cerebral palsy in neonates of women with preeclampsia.
RESULTS: The rate of cerebral palsy was double in patients with preeclampsia than
in the normotensive group (0.2% vs 0.1%; P = .015); early onset preeclampsia and 
small for gestational age were independent risk factors for the subsequent
development of cerebral palsy (odds ratio, 8.639 [95% confidence interval,
4.269-17.480]; odds ratio, 2.737 [95% confidence interval, 1.937-3.868],
respectively). A second model was conducted to determine the risk factors for the
development of cerebral palsy in women with preeclampsia. Birth asphyxia,
complications of prematurity, and neonatal infectious morbidity, but not small
for gestational age or gestational age at delivery, were independent risk factors
for the development of cerebral palsy.
CONCLUSION: In a comparison with normal pregnant women, the rate of cerebral
palsy is double among patients with preeclampsia, especially those with
early-onset disease. Early-onset preeclampsia is an independent risk factor for
cerebral palsy. Among women with preeclampsia, the presence of neonatal
infectious morbidity, birth asphyxia, and complications of prematurity are
independent risk factors for the development of cerebral palsy, which further
supports the role of a multi-hit model in the pathogenesis of this syndrome.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2015.08.020 
PMID: 26283455  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
