---
layout: page
header: no
#
# Content
#
subheadline: ""Recent Publication""
title: "Use patterns of health information exchange systems and admission decisions: Reductionistic and configurational approaches"
teaser: "Politi L(1), Codish S(2), Sagy I(2), Fink L(3)."
categories: [Publications]
tags: [HIT]
---

1. Int J Med Inform. 2015 Dec;84(12):1029-38. doi: 10.1016/j.ijmedinf.2015.06.012.
Epub 2015 Jul 17.

Use patterns of health information exchange systems and admission decisions:
Reductionistic and configurational approaches.

Politi L(1), Codish S(2), Sagy I(2), Fink L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Industrial Engineering & Management, Ben-Gurion University of
the Negev, Israel. Electronic address: liranpo@post.bgu.ac.il. (2)Clinical
Research Center, Soroka University Medical Center, Israel. (3)Department of
Industrial Engineering & Management, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Israel.

BACKGROUND: Research that endeavors to identify the value of electronic health
information exchange (HIE) systems to the healthcare industry and, specifically, 
to clinical decision making is often inconclusive or theory-based. Studies
seeking to identify how clinical decisions relate to patterns of actual HIE use, 
often by analyzing system log files, generally rely on dichotomous distinctions
between system use and no-use, disregard the availability of information in the
system, and control for few user characteristics.
OBJECTIVE: We aim at empirically exploring the associations between use patterns 
of HIE systems and subsequent clinical decisions on the basis of broad
definitions of use patterns, available information, and control variables.
METHODS: We examine the decision to admit critically-ill patients either to the
intensive care unit (ICU) or to another ward at a busy emergency department in
the period 2010-2012. Using HIE log files, use patterns are characterized by the 
variables of number of users, volume, diversity, granularity, duration, and
content. We test the association between HIE use patterns and the admission
decision, after controlling for multiple demographic, clinical, physician, and
situational variables and for available HIE information. This association is
examined by taking a reductionistic approach that focuses on independent use
variables and a configurational approach that focuses on use profiles.
RESULTS: Five use profiles were identified, the largest of which (46.95% of
encounters) described basic HIE access. ICU admission is more probable when the
HIE system is perused by multiple users (odds increase by 31%) and when use
profiles include prolonged screen viewing (odds increase by 159%) or access to
diverse and multiple types of information, specifically on test results,
procedures, and previous encounters.
DISCUSSION: Reductionistic and configurational approaches yield complementary
insights, which advance the understanding of how actual HIE use is associated
with clinical decision making. The study shows that congruent profiles of HIE use
enhance the predictability of the admission decision beyond what can be explained
by independent variables of HIE use.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijmedinf.2015.06.012 
PMID: 26212125  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]

		
		
		
		
		
		
