---
layout: page
header: no
#
# Content
#
subheadline: "Recent Publication"
title: "Inflammatory bowel disease among Bedouin Arabs in southern Israel: urbanization and increasing prevalence rates."
teaser: "Abu Freha N(1), Schwartz D, Elkrinawi J, Ben Yakov G, Abu Tailakh M, Munteanu D, Abu Ganim A, Fich A."
categories: [Publications]
tags: [Gastroenterology, Environmental Health]
---
1. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 Mar;27(3):230-4. doi:
10.1097/MEG.0000000000000263.

Inflammatory bowel disease among Bedouin Arabs in southern Israel: urbanization
and increasing prevalence rates.

Abu Freha N(1), Schwartz D, Elkrinawi J, Ben Yakov G, Abu Tailakh M, Munteanu D, 
Abu Ganim A, Fich A.

Author information: 
(1)aThe Institute of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Soroka University Medical
Center and the Faculty of Health Sciences bDepartment of Public Health, Clinical 
Research Center, Soroka University Medical Center cSurgery Department A, Soroka
University Medical Center and the Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben-Gurion
University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) has been associated with
genetic and environmental factors, including urban living. IBD was rare in the
Israeli Bedouin community 30 years ago. Over recent decades, a large proportion
of this community has undergone a transition from a nomadic to a western
lifestyle. Our aim was to carry out an updated evaluation of the clinical and
epidemiological features of IBD in the Bedouin sector of southern Israel.
METHODS: All Bedouin patients with a known diagnosis of Crohn's disease (CD) or
ulcerative colitis (UC) were included in the retrospective study.
RESULTS: The cohort included 31 CD patients and 31 UC patients. The mean age of
the patients at diagnosis was 29±10.9 and 35±17.5 years for CD and UC,
respectively. The prevalence rate for CD was 15.5/100,000 and the incidence rate 
was 0.8-3.55/100,000. Fourteen of the CD patients (45%) had ileal disease and
64.5% had inflammatory disease behavior according to the Montreal classification.
Eleven of the CD patients (35%) were treated with anti-TNF-α and 26% had
undergone surgery. Over the previous decade, the prevalence of UC was 14/100,000 
and the incidence was 0.5-2.39/100,000. Eighteen UC patients (58%) had left-sided
colitis. Three (9.7%) had undergone total colectomy for severe disease.
CONCLUSION: We found an increased prevalence of IBD in the Bedouin population,
associated with their change in lifestyle over previous decades. However, the
prevalence is still markedly lower than that in other population groups. A high
percentage of patients were treated with anti-TNF-α and/or surgery.

DOI: 10.1097/MEG.0000000000000263 
PMID: 25563139  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
