---
layout: page
#
# Content
#
subheadline: "Recent Publication"
title: "Postpartum uterine artery blood flow impedance following cesarean section or vaginal delivery."
teaser: "Baron J(1), Hershkovitz R(1), Baumfeld Y(1,)(2), Imterat M(1), Sciaky-Tamir Y(1), Mastrolia SA(3), Schwarzman P(1), Weintraub AY(1)."
categories:
  - Publications
tags:
  - OBGYN
---

1. J Clin Ultrasound. 2016 Jun;44(5):278-83. doi: 10.1002/jcu.22315. Epub 2015 Dec
15.

Postpartum uterine artery blood flow impedance following cesarean section or
vaginal delivery.

Baron J(1), Hershkovitz R(1), Baumfeld Y(1,)(2), Imterat M(1), Sciaky-Tamir Y(1),
Mastrolia SA(3), Schwarzman P(1), Weintraub AY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Soroka University Medical Center,
Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva,
Israel. (2)Clinical Research Center, Soroka University Medical Center, Faculty of
Health Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria
Policlinico di Bari, University of Bari, Bari, Italy.

PURPOSE: To compare uterine arteries (UtA) blood flow after cesarean section (CS)
or vaginal delivery (VD).
METHODS: We performed a prospective case-control study comparing UtA blood flow
impedance in patients who delivered by CS or VD. The UtA pulsatility index (PI)
was measured with Doppler ultrasound during post partum using a transabdominal
convex probe. Maternal and gestational age, parity, gravidity, and delay between 
delivery and Doppler measurement were noted.
RESULTS: We examined 106 postnatal patients, of whom 35 had CS delivery and 71
had VD. The median delay from delivery to Doppler measurement was 35 hours for
the CS group and 32 hours for the VD group. The mean PI following CS and VD was
1.62 ± 0.45 and 1.42 ± 0.47, respectively. Using a linear model, the regression
coefficients for mean, right, and left PI were not significantly different
depending on the mode of delivery. There was no difference between emergency and 
elective CS.
CONCLUSIONS: Early postpartum UtA blood flow impedance is not significantly
different after CS or VD. © 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Clin Ultrasound
44:278-283, 2016.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcu.22315 
PMID: 26666505  [PubMed - in process]
