---
layout: page
header: no

#
# Content
#
subheadline: "Recent Publication"
title: "Examining patient comprehension of emergency department discharge instructions: Who says they understand when they do not?"
teaser: "Lin MJ(1), Tirosh AG(2), Landry A(3)."
categories: [Publications]
tags: [Patient Education, Emergency Medicine]
---
1. Intern Emerg Med. 2015 Dec;10(8):993-1002. doi: 10.1007/s11739-015-1311-8. Epub
2015 Sep 10.

Examining patient comprehension of emergency department discharge instructions:
Who says they understand when they do not?

Lin MJ(1), Tirosh AG(2), Landry A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, One
Deaconess Road, WCC-2, Boston, MA, 02215, USA. mjlin@bidmc.harvard.edu. (2)Soroka
Clinical Research Center, Soroka University Medical Center, Beersheba, Israel.
advagu@gmail.com. (3)Department of Emergency Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess
Medical Center, One Deaconess Road, WCC-2, Boston, MA, 02215, USA.
alandry@bidmc.harvard.edu.

Comment in
    Intern Emerg Med. 2016 Feb;11(1):157-8.

Patient comprehension of emergency department (ED) discharge instructions is
important for ensuring that patients understand their diagnosis, recommendations 
for treatment, appropriate follow-up, and reasons to return. However, many
patients may not fully understand their instructions. Furthermore, some patients 
may state they understand their instructions even when they do not. We surveyed
75 patients on their perception of their understanding of their ED discharge
instructions, and asked them specific questions about the instructions. We also
performed a chart review, and examined patients' answers for correlation with the
written instructions and medical chart. We then performed a statistical analysis 
evaluating which patients claimed understanding but who were found to have poor
understanding on chart review. Overall, there was no significant correlation
between patient self-reported understanding and physician evaluation of their
understanding (ρ = 0.221, p = 0.08). However, among female patients and patients 
with less than 4 years of college, there was significant positive correlation
between self-report and physician evaluation of comprehension (ρ = 0.326, p =
0.04 and ρ = 0.344, p = 0.04, respectively), whereas there was no correlation for
male patients and those with more than 16 years of education (ρ = 0.008, p = 0.9,
ρ = -0.041, p = 0.84, respectively). Patients' perception of their understanding 
may not be accurate, especially among men, and those with greater than college
education. Identifying which patients say they understand their discharge
instructions, but may actually have poor comprehension could help focus future
interventions on improving comprehension.

DOI: 10.1007/s11739-015-1311-8 
PMID: 26358466  [PubMed - in process]

