---
layout: page
#
# Content
#
subheadline: "Recent Publication"
title: "The impact of PCR on Clostridium difficile detection and clinical outcomes."
teaser: "Akbari M(1), Vodonos A(2), Silva G(3), Wungjiranirun M(4), Leffler DA(1), Kelly CP(1), Novack V(2)."
categories:
  - Publications
tags:
  - Infectious Disease
---
1. J Med Microbiol. 2015 Sep;64(9):1082-6. doi: 10.1099/jmm.0.000126. Epub 2015 Jul 
9.

The impact of PCR on Clostridium difficile detection and clinical outcomes.

Akbari M(1), Vodonos A(2), Silva G(3), Wungjiranirun M(4), Leffler DA(1), Kelly
CP(1), Novack V(2).

Author information: 
(1)1​Department of Gastroenterology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center,
Boston, MA, USA. (2)2​Clinical Research Center, Soroka University Medical Center,
Be'er-Sheva, Israel 3​Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of the
Negev, Be'er-Sheva, Israel. (3)4​Decision Support, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical 
Center, Boston, MA, USA. (4)5​Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess
Medical Center, Boston, MA, USA.

PCR has increasingly replaced toxin A and B enzyme immunoassay (EIA) for the
testing of Clostridium difficile infection (CDI). This study evaluated the
clinical outcomes of CDI and disease epidemiology since the introduction of PCR. 
Clinical data and outcomes for patients admitted to a tertiary care centre during
2003 to 2012 were extracted using electronic medical records. Outcomes and
incidence of disease were compared between types of CDI testing. In total, 15.6% 
of 108,092 patients admitted were tested for CDI. Among patients tested, 6.1% had
positive results. The mean number of tests performed per 1000 admissions by EIA
and PCR was 257.4 and 162.6, respectively. A total of 8.2% of PCR tests were
positive compared to 5.0% of EIA tests (P < 0.001). The number of tests performed
has decreased and the proportion of positive tests increased since PCR
introduction. CDI incidence has remained constant. Only albumin (3.09 vs 3.24 g
dl(-1), P 0.002) and inflammatory bowel disease (2.6 vs 7.0%, P < 0.001) status
differed between the EIA and PCR groups. While hospital mortality did not differ,
patients diagnosed by PCR had a shorter median length of stay (10 vs 8 days, P
0.004). Since PCR testing began, less CDI tests have been performed, but the
proportion of positive results has increased. The incidence of CDI has remained
constant, suggesting no change in disease epidemiology. The length of stay was
shorter in the PCR group, reflective of either earlier detection and quicker
onset of therapy or detection of less severe disease. Mortality did not change
since the introduction of PCR.

DOI: 10.1099/jmm.0.000126 
PMID: 26297376  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
