---
layout: page
#
# Content
#
subheadline: "Recent Publication"
title: "Does gender of the fetus have any relation with fetal heart monitoring during the first and-second-stage-of-labor?"
teaser: "Yohai D(1), Baumfeld Y(1,)(2), Zilberstein T(1), Yaniv Salem S(1), Elharar D(1), Idan I(1), Mastrolia SA(1,)(3), Sheiner E(1)."
categories:
  - Publication
tags:
  - OBGYN
---

1. J Matern Fetal Neonatal Med. 2016 Apr 19:1-5. [Epub ahead of print]

Does gender of the fetus have any relation with fetal heart monitoring during the
first and second stage of labor?

Yohai D(1), Baumfeld Y(1,)(2), Zilberstein T(1), Yaniv Salem S(1), Elharar D(1), 
Idan I(1), Mastrolia SA(1,)(3), Sheiner E(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology , Faculty of Health Sciences, Soroka
University Medical Center, Ben Gurion University of the Negev , Beer Sheva ,
Israel . (2)b Clinical Research Center, Faculty of Health Sciences, Soroka
University Medical Center, Ben Gurion University of the Negev , Beer Sheva ,
Israel , and. (3)c Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology , Azienda Ospedaliera 
Universitaria Policlinico Di Bari, School of Medicine, University of Bari "Aldo
Moro" , Bari , Italy.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate fetal gender and its influences on neonatal outcomes,
taking into consideration the available tools for the assessment of fetal
well-being.
METHODS: We conducted a retrospective study comparing maternal, fetal and
neonatal outcomes according to fetal gender, in women carrying a singleton
gestation. A multivariate analysis was performed for the prediction of adverse
neonatal outcomes according to fetal gender, after adjustment for gestational
age, maternal age and fetal weight.
RESULTS: A total of 682 pregnancies were included in the study, of them 56%
(n = 383) were carrying a male fetus and 44% (n = 299) a females fetus. Male
gender was associated with a significant higher rate of abnormal fetal heart
tracing patterns during the first (67.7% versus 55.1, p = 0.001) and the second
stage (77.6 versus 67.7, p = 0.01) of labor. Male gender was also significantly
associated with lower Apgar scores at 1' (19.1% versus 10.7%, p < 0.01), as well 
as lower pH values (7.18 ± 0.15 versus 7.23 ± 0.18, p < 0.001), and significant
differences in cord blood components (PCO2, PO2) compared with female fetuses. In
the multivariate analysis, male gender was found to be significantly associated
with first (OR 1.76, 95% CI 1.28-2.43, p = 0.001) and second stage (OR 1.73, 95% 
CI 1.20-2.50, p < 0.01) pathological fetal heart tracing patterns, pH < 7.1, and 
for Apgar scores at 1'< 7.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study confirms the general trend of a lower clinical
performance of male neonates compared with females. In addition, the relation
between fetal heart rate patterns during all stages of labor and fetal gender
showed an independent association between male fetal gender and abnormal fetal
heart monitoring during labor.

DOI: 10.3109/14767058.2016.1168802 
PMID: 27003831  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]
