---
layout: page
#
# Content
#
subheadline: "Recent Publication"
title: "Angiographic evidence of proliferative retinopathy predicts neuropsychiatric morbidity in diabetic patients."
teaser: "Serlin Y(1), Shafat T(2), Levy J(3), Winter A(4), Shneck M(3), Knyazer B(3), Parmet Y(5), Shalev H(6), Ur E(7), Friedman A(8)."
categories: [Publications]
tags: [Opthamology, Neurology, Diabetes]
---

1. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2016 May;67:163-70. doi:
10.1016/j.psyneuen.2016.02.009. Epub 2016 Feb 12.

Angiographic evidence of proliferative retinopathy predicts neuropsychiatric
morbidity in diabetic patients.

Serlin Y(1), Shafat T(2), Levy J(3), Winter A(4), Shneck M(3), Knyazer B(3),
Parmet Y(5), Shalev H(6), Ur E(7), Friedman A(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Cell Biology, Zlotowski Center for Neuroscience, 
Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel; Department of Medical
Neuroscience, Faculty of Medicine, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia,
Canada. (2)Clinical Research Center, Soroka University Medical Center,
Beer-Sheva, Israel. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, Soroka University Medical
Center and Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev,
Beer-Sheva, Israel. (4)Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Faculty of Medicine,
Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. (5)Department of Industrial
Engineering and Management, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva,
Israel. (6)Department of Psychiatry, Soroka University Medical Center,
Beer-Sheva, Israel. (7)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, University of
British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. (8)Department of
Physiology and Cell Biology, Zlotowski Center for Neuroscience, Ben-Gurion
University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel; Department of Medical Neuroscience, 
Faculty of Medicine, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.
Electronic address: alon.friedman@dal.ca.

INTRODUCTION: Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a common vasculopathy categorized as
either non-proliferative (NPDR) or proliferative (PDR),characterized by
dysfunctional blood-retinal barrier (BRB) and diagnosed using fluorescein
angiography (FA). Since the BRB is similar in structure and function to the
blood-brain barrier (BBB) and BBB dysfunction plays a key role in the
pathogenesis of brain disorders, we hypothesized that PDR, the severe form of DR,
is likely to mirror BBB damage and to predict a worse neuropsychiatric outcome.
METHODS: A retrospective cohort study was conducted among subjects with diabetes 
(N=2982) with FA-confirmed NPDR (N=2606) or PDR (N=376). Incidence and
probability to develop brain pathologies and mortality were investigated in a
10-year follow-up study. We used Kaplan-Meier, Cox and logistic regression
analyses to examine association between DR severity and neuropsychiatric
morbidity adjusting for confounders.
RESULTS: Patients with PDR had significantly higher rates of all-cause brain
pathologies (P<0.001), specifically stroke (P=0.005), epilepsy (P=0.006) and
psychosis (P=0.024), and a shorter time to develop any neuropsychiatric event
(P<0.001) or death (P=0.014) compared to NPDR. Cox adjusted hazard ratio for
developing all-cause brain impairments was higher for PDR (HR=1.37, 95% CI
1.16-1.61, P<0.001) which was an independent predictor for all-cause brain
impairments (OR 1.30, 95% CI 1.04-1.64, P=0.022), epilepsy (OR 2.16, 95% CI
1.05-4.41, P=0.035) and mortality (HR=1.35, 95% CI 1.06-1.70, P=0.014).
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study to confirm that angiography-proven
microvasculopathy identifies patients at high risk for neuropsychiatric morbidity
and mortality.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2016.02.009 
PMID: 26907995  [PubMed - in process]
