---
layout: page
#
# Content
#
subheadline: "Recent Publication"
title: "Impact of a 3-Day Introductory Oncology Course on First-Year International Medical Students."
teaser: "Granek L(1), Mizrakli Y(2), Ariad S(3), Jotkowitz A(4), Geffen DB(3)."
categories:
  - Publications
tags:
  - Oncology
  - Medical Education
---

1. J Cancer Educ. 2016 Feb 5. [Epub ahead of print]

Impact of a 3-Day Introductory Oncology Course on First-Year International
Medical Students.

Granek L(1), Mizrakli Y(2), Ariad S(3), Jotkowitz A(4), Geffen DB(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Public Health, Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben Gurion University
of the Negev, P.O. Box 653, 84101, Beer Sheva, Israel. Leeatg@gmail.com.
(2)Clinical Research Center, Soroka University Medical Center, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, Ben Gurion University of the Negev, Beer Sheva, Israel. (3)Department
of Oncology, Soroka University Medical Center, Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben
Gurion University of the Negev, Beer Sheva, Israel. (4)Department of Medicine,
Soroka University Medical Center, Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben Gurion
University of the Negev, Beer Sheva, Israel.

Although only some medical students will choose cancer as their specialty, it is 
essential that all students have a basic understanding of cancer and its
treatment. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of an
introductory clinical oncology course on first-year international medical
students. Evaluation of the course involved a quantitative survey designed for
this study that was given pre- and post-course completion. Participants included 
29 first-year international medical students. Students reported that the course
affected them emotionally more than they anticipated it would prior to beginning 
the course. By the end of the course, students felt more comfortable focusing on 
how to live with cancer, felt less afraid of dealing with death, and were better 
able to cope with uncomfortable emotional situations. The course had no
significant effect on students' interest in specializing in oncology in the
future. Our study provides evidence that an introductory oncology course can
increase student comfort with issues related to living with cancer, with
confronting and dealing with death and dying, and with coping with uncomfortable 
emotional situations as related to cancer care. In anticipation of growing
shortages in oncology specialists in the coming years, the ability of an early
course in oncology to attract more students to the field is of interest. Future
research should examine ethnic and cultural differences in uptake of the clinical
oncology courses across continents and should use direct observation in addition 
to self-report in evaluating outcomes.

DOI: 10.1007/s13187-015-0972-3 
PMID: 26847466  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]
